So we want to desing a new Anki app, specifiaclly for German and specifically with this Anki cards we build. So I want to see the progress by levels (e.g A1 is 90% covered, A2 is 30%, etc. but build it with progress bars, with good UI not with numbers)

I want it to be on Swift. You can restructure anki file to any proper storage fromat you might think will be usefull.

You need to implement sampling cards based on Anki's algorithm, so this repeated learnings is maximized. There are going to be main 3 modes. First one is random cards, from any level. This will be there as we open an app, so there is already a word shown. Second one is goal one. For example, my current level is A0, begginer. My next goal is to learn A1, so when I press the button, "start session" I will be given the cards based on Anki algorithm to close A1. Third one is highly specific, e.g. I can select level, topic, etc. 

The main UI is the UI for viewing and learning cards. This shold be minimalistic view, that show the word in the middle. If I tap on the word It should show me a sentence with it, if I tap again, next sentence, and if for example we had 3 sentences it will return to a word after we showed all of them. We need a nice UX for it. On the side we should have a play the sound button, that will play the audio to what is shown. (By the way, we do not care at all about adudio in english or in russian, lets not care about it and not load in the app at all). In the bottom we have 4 buttons, like in Anki that say how good we know this word. After we click one of them, we show the pairs, for the word and translation and all sentences for words and translation. Only use one translation, either english or russian. Default is English, in the app we can selevt what translation we show. On this page where we see the translation there is an option to change how well we know the word. Then there should be a simple way to continue, like a nice button co click.

So overall, we have 3 pages in the app. On the left is the page where we can see shortly our progress until next level, select the session, e.g. how many words, topic or start a default session (should have good UI/UX). Page on a middle will be opened as a first page, and already have a random words. Also at the top we can show the status of the session, so when we open an app, it should show no session. When we on the first page select a session, we get transferet do the second page and start the session and status should reflect what are we doing. Right now. We can close the session and start a new one. All progress always saved. Third and last page is the page with settings, info etc. We can set a defaults (like default number of cards per session), language, current level, etc. We also should show there detailed stats, e.g. how much words we learned, per level, per topic, etc.

I plan to have this app only on the phone, so without deployed backend. If you have a strong argument to have a backend, lets discuss.

The app should be optimized, and load all the cards seamesly, without lags. The UI should be nice and not cluttered. 